welcome to another fight of the century
the first participant enters the ring
it's the megalodon
this shark lived 23 to 3 million years
ago
and right now it holds the title of the
ultimate hunter of all times
the second fighter is in the ring and
it's the dunkleosteus
it lived around 350 to 380 million years
ago
and was the largest fish of that time
these creatures swam all over the world
and arouse fear with their armored heads
and mighty jaws
we're going to compare our fighters in
several categories
in each of them the winner will get one
point in the final round
these two sea monsters will face each
other for the last time
and we'll find out who the real king of
the sea world is
grab your popcorn and hot dogs it's time
for round one
size these days the largest white sharks
grow to be 20 feet long
the megalodon was more than twice that
size up to 50 feet
that's almost as long as a tennis court
the ancient
shark's single fin was larger than the
average person
the shark's jaws were more than six feet
wide it would mean you could comfortably
sprawl out inside the creature's mouth
at the same time you wouldn't want to
get anywhere near a shark the size of a
big
truck and the mag might have been even
bigger
the only remains of the ancient shark
are its teeth and vertebrae
that's why scientists can only guess
what its true size was
now to the next fighter some species of
dunkleosteus were only three feet long
but the largest ones could reach almost
29 feet
this school bus size fish was one of the
largest of its time
and much bigger than many modern sharks
but the megalodon is almost twice its
size
so in this round the meg gets its first
point
and opens the score one to nothing
moving on to the next category and
that's wait
wait what are we waiting for oh you mean
wait the largest white shark can weigh
as much as a small car in this case the
mig might be compared to two loaded
cement trucks
60 tons an empty boeing 737 weighs less
than the ancient super shark did if you
wanted to lift the mag in the air
it would take as many as three ch-54
cargo helicopters
the heaviest part of the dunkleosteus
was its head
because of its massive bones and its
length could be more than one foot
the ancient fish weighed almost as much
as an adult elephant
it was also four times heavier than most
modern sharks
with a total weight of four tons and
still
the megalodon is more than ten times
heavier than the dunkleosteus
another clear victory in this round two
to nothing the next category is agility
how about a treadmill test for the meg
its top speed was 11 miles per hour
it seems rather low but no wonder it was
hard for the shark to move its body
huge and bulky for comparison much
smaller
modern white sharks can travel at 34
miles per hour
the fastest human can swim at almost 5
which means people wouldn't be able to
escape from the megalodon in the water
but the ancient shark had trouble
turning its mobility could be compared
to a large cargo plane in the sky
the dunkleosteus with all that heavy
armor on its head
had perfect protection from all kinds of
enemies
that's why it didn't need to be a good
swimmer to get away from danger
besides it was the biggest fish in the
ocean
meaning it had nothing to be afraid of
still the creature was smaller than the
mig its relatively compact size
plus agile lower fins and strong tail
made the dunkleosteus speedier than the
ancient
shark so in this round dunn
gets its first point the score is two to
one
in favor of the megalodon let's move on
now we'll see what our participants can
use to fight each other
round four fighting tools the meg's
teeth were almost as long as your
forearm
some of the largest teeth that ever
existed
they were triangular in shape and razor
sharp
to pierce through whale's thick skin the
shark had
five rows of teeth with around 50 teeth
in each row
250 in total do the math the mag also
had his teeth
changed throughout its life researchers
still find the ancient shark's teeth
at the bottom of the ocean the
dunkleosteus
had no teeth whatsoever its jaws were
formed from long bony plates
they were incredibly sharp and shaped
into long slicing edges
the coolest thing was that these edges
could self-sharpen
the fish's jaw muscles were incredibly
strong
they allowed the creature to open its
mouth in 20 milliseconds
time it with the jaw like that dunn had
one of the most powerful bites on earth
its strength can be compared to that of
the mississippian alligator
for its surprisingly hefty bite
dunkliastius gets another point
the score becomes tied at two to two
now let's see which of our contestants
is more popular
the mag is the most famous shark in the
world
it's appeared not only in many movies
and comics
but also in fisher stories all over this
planet
every time someone saw a large shadow
lurking near their boat
they were afraid they'd see the biggest
shark on earth
some people think that megalodons are
still alive
they're simply hiding somewhere deep
under the surface
for example in the mariana trench
but to feed such a large body the shark
would have to eat constantly
like me and if this myth was true you'd
definitely see a megalodon close to the
surface one day
but it's never happened so you can
sleep easy even though the dunkleosteus
isn't that well known it still deserves
respect
it lived earlier than the first
dinosaurs and was the largest predator
of its time
when archaeologists first found the
remains of the dunkleosteus
they were shocked they called the
creature the terrible fish
and only gave it a scientific name years
later
well even though this round doesn't
change the count
the megalodon gets its people's choice
award
and now the final stage fighting skills
the megalodon has the title of one of
the best hunters ever
scientists have been able to figure out
the ancient sharks hunting tactics
they learned that these creatures
somehow knew where their opponent's
vulnerable spots were
they hit vital organs and were quick to
disable their enemies
sometimes these ancient sharks would
also aim at the fins of
larger sea creatures to immobilize them
it left the bigger opponents defenseless
and unprotected
another tactic the meg used was a
battering ram approach
the massive shark would crash into a
whale leaving it with no
chance to escape in other words
intellect and strategy
were the megalodon's most important
skills
at that time the meg was the largest
shark in the world
but in the oceans there were creatures
much larger than that
for example whales and the mig didn't
always have the courage to charge them
as for the dunkley osteous its trump
card was its powerful jaws
usually the fish would swim toward a
smaller animal
then in a split second it would open its
huge mouth
and the future meal would be pulled
inside along with water
as the creature matured its jaw shape
changed
that's why after being born it could
feed only on
large soft fish but as it aged it got
the ability to bite through
tougher stuff and later in life the
dunkleosteus
began to munch on sea creatures with
hard shells
or basically any sea animal that existed
at that time
anyway it's up to you to decide who gets
the point this time
do you hear the sound of the gong it
means
it's time for our sea monsters to meet
face to face
they run into each other in the vast
waters of the ocean
the megalodon is the first to notice its
opponent
the shark wants to use its battering ram
approach against the dunkleosteus's
powerful armor
so it begins to speed up but dunn
dodges and avoids the collision as the
meg turns around
the dunkleosteus gets a chance to grab
the shark by the tail
in a split second its powerful jaws
close on the shark's fin
but the fish's bony plates are too short
to bite through the meg's
thick skin the megalodon begins to twist
and wag its powerful tail to throw the
dunkleosteus off its body
it looks like a rodeo dunn gets a
powerful slap
and is left stunned for a moment the
megalodon uses this time to turn around
a couple of seconds later the massive
shark opens its huge
jaw and ends the fight with one bite
so today the megalodon proves once again
that it's worthy of its title as the
best hunter of the sea world
the ancient shark continues its
wanderings in search of a stronger
opponent
stay tuned